.TH MEGATRACE "8" "September 2007" "0.4.1" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
megatrace - a debugging program which can be used to trace LSI MegaRAID-related ioctl() system calls.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B megatrace
is debugging program which can be used to trace LSI MegaRAID-related ioctl() system calls.
.br
You won't need that unless you're trying to add features to megactl, or are exceptionally curious.
.br
This program uses ptrace(2) and can inspect and modify data structures to help you suss out what's going on in dellmgr and MegaCli.
.PP
If you're not developer, please check megactl(8) or megactlsas(8).

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B megatrace
<command_to_trace>
.PP
You may really consider tracing a command that access MegaRAID card, like Dell's dellmgr or LSI's megacli.

.SH OPTIONS
.B megatrace
has no options.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
Homepage: http://sourceforge.net/projects/megactl
.br
Some examples scripts (Debian systems): /usr/share/doc/megactl/examples/
.br
megactl(8): Reporting tool for SCSI adapters.
megasasctl(8): Reporting tool for SAS adapters.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Adam Cécile (Le_Vert) <gandalf@le-vert.net> for the Debian system (but may be used by others).
.br
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation
.br
On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public License can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL.
