.TH MEGACTL "8" "September 2007" "0.4.1" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
megactl - a reporting tool for LSI MegaRAID adapters and its attached disks.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B megactl
can report diagnostics on megaraid adapters and attached disks. 
.br
It permits dumping of controller log pages for inspection of error, temperature, and self-test conditions, initiates self-test diagnostics, and documents adapter and logical drive configuration.
.br
Target devices may be adapters, (e.g. a0), channels (e.g. a0c0), or individual disks (e.g. a0c0t0).
.br
If no target is specified, reports configuration and drive state on all
adapters.
.br
If a target matches a collection of disks, operations are
applied to all matching devices.

.SH REQUIREMENTS
.B megactl
requires the device file /dev/megadev0 to be present on
the system.
.br
On Debian systems, this device node will be created at boot time by megactl-makedev init script.
.br
If your system does not have this device file, you may create it either by executing Dell's "dellmgr" program once, or by locating the megadev entry in /proc/devices and creating /dev/megadev0 as a character device with suitable permissions with a matching major device number and a minor number of 0.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B megactl
[\-vest] [\-H] [\-l log-page-nr] [\-T long|short] [target ...]

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I -v
Increase program verbosity.
.TP
.I -e
Dump read (0x03), write (0x02), and verify (0x05) error log pages.
.TP
.I -s
Dump self-test (0x10) log page.
.TP
.I -t
Dump temperature (0x0d) log page.
.TP
.I -l <page>
Dump the specified log page.
.br
Log page 0 documents the log pages the device supports.
.TP
.I -p
Do not report physical disks.
.br
Reports only adapters and logical drives.
.br
Useful for concisely documenting adapter configuration.
.TP
.I -T short|long
Initiate the background short or long self-test procedure.
.br
The test may take up to an hour to complete, but does not inhibit access to the device.
.br
The test may be monitored using the \-s option.
.br
The background long self test is a useful tool for diagnosing problems with individual disks.
.br
But be cautious with program usage. "megactl \-T long" with no targets will initiate a background long self test on every drive on every adapter.
.br
This may not be what you want.
.TP
.I -H
Perform an adapter health check.
.br
Inspects state of all logical and physical drives and battery backup unit and reports problem conditions.
.br
If all is well, generates no output. Useful in a cron job.
.br
By default, the health check option inspects log pages 0x02, 0x03, and 0x05 for uncorrected read, write, and verify errors, 0x0d for excess temperature conditions, and 0x10 for failed self tests.
.br
If, however, any of the log page options is specified, only the designated log pages are inspected.
.TP
.I -B
When performing health check, do not treat battery problems as failures.
.TP
.I -V
Show version.


.SH "SEE ALSO"
Homepage: http://sourceforge.net/projects/megactl
.br
Some examples scripts (Debian systems): /usr/share/doc/megactl/examples/
.br
megasasctl(8): Same tool, for SAS adapters.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Adam Cécile (Le_Vert) <gandalf@le-vert.net> for the Debian system (but may be used by others).
.br
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation
.br
On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public License can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL.
